in the previous video we talked about
how to use back propagation to compute
the derivatives of your cost function in
this video I want to quickly tell you
about one implementational detail of
unrolling your parameters from matrices
into vectors which we'll need in order
to use the advanced optimization
routines concretely let's say you've
implemented a cost function that takes
as input your parameters theta and
returns the cost function and returns
derivatives then you can post this to an
advanced optimization algorithm by
fminunc and fminunc isn't the only one
by the way there are there are also
other advanced optimization algorithms
but what all of them do is take as input
the point of the cost function and some
initial value of theta and both and this
these routines assume that theta and the
initial value of theta that these are
parameter vectors may be RN or RN plus 1
but that these are vectors and it also
seems that your cost function will
return as a second return value this
gradient which is also like RM our RN
plus 1 so also a vector this worked fine
when we were using logistic regression
but now that we're using a neural
network our parameters are no longer
vectors but instead they're these
matrices where for a folder in your
network we would have parameter matrices
theta 1 theta 2 theta 3 that we might
represent in octave as these matrices
theta 1 theta 2 theta 3 and similarly
these gradient terms that were expected
to return well in the previous video we
show how to compute these gradient
matrices which was capital D 1 capital D
2 in faculty 3 which we might represent
in octave as matrices D 1 D 2 D 3 in
this video I want to quickly tell you
about the idea of how to take these
matrices and unroll them into vectors so
that they end up being in a format
suitable for passing into as theta here
all for getting out for a gradient there
concretely let's say we have a neural
network with one input layer with
units hidden there with ten units and
one output there with just one unit so
s1 is the number of units in layer 1 s2
is number of units in layer 2 and s 3 is
the number of layers is number of units
in layer 3 in this case the dimension of
your matrices theta and D are going to
be given by these expressions now for
example theta one is going to be a 10 by
11 matrix and so on so in octave if you
want to convert between these matrices
and vectors we can do is take your theta
1 theta 2 theta 3 and write this piece
of code and this will take all the
elements of your 3 theta matrices and
take all the elements of theta 1 all the
elements of theta 2 all the elements of
theta 3 and unroll them and put all the
elements into a big long vector which is
thetavec and similarly the second
command would take all of your D
matrices and unroll them into a big long
vector and call it D vector and finally
if you want to go back from the vector
representations to the matrix
representations what you do to get back
data one say is take van Tate thetavec
and pull out the first 110 elements so
theta one has 110 elements because
there's a 10 by 11 matrix so that pulls
out the first hundred and 10 elements
and then you can use the reshape command
to reshape this back into theta 1 and
similarly to get back beta 2 you pull
the next hundred and ten elements and
reshape it and for theta 3 you pull out
the final 11
and reshape to get back pay the three
here's a quick octave demo of that
process so for this example let's set
theta 1 equal to be a 1 of 10 by 11 this
is a matrix of all ones and just to make
this easier see you let's set that to be
two times ones 10 by 11 and let's set
theta 3 equals 3 times ones of 1 by 11
so this is three separate matrices theta
1 theta 2 theta 2 me if I want to put
all of these into the vector I've set
theta Veck equals theta 1 semicolon
theta 2 theta 3 right there's a colon in
the middle and like so and now theta
that is going to be a very long vector
there's 231 elements if I if I display
it I find that this is very long vector
of all the elements in the first matrix
all the others second matrix then all
the elements of the third matrix and if
I want to get back my original matrices
I can do Lee shape theta deck let's pull
out the first 110 elements and reshape
that into 10 by 11 matrix and just gives
me back beta 1 and if I then pull out
the next 110 elements so that's indices
101 to 220 I get back all of my 2s and
if I go from 2 to 1 up to the lost
elements just element 2 3 1 and reciate
2 1 by 11 I get back from day two three
to make this process really concrete
here's how we use the unrolling idea to
implement our learning algorithm let's
say that you have some initial value of
the parameters theta 1 theta 2 theta 3
what we're going to do is take these and
unroll them into a long vector we're
going to call initial theta to pass into
fminunc as this initial setting of the
parameters theta the other thing we need
to do is to implement the cost function
here's my implementation of the cost
function the cost function is going to
give us input theta vector which is
going to be all my parameter vector is
that in the form that's been unrolled
into a vector so the first thing I'm
going to do is I'm going to use data
back and I'm going to use the reshape
function to pull elements from thetavec
and use reshape to get back my original
parameter matrices theta 1 theta 2 theta
3 so these are going to be matrices that
I get so that gives me a more convenient
form I wish to use these matrices so
they can run forward propagation and
back propagation to compute my
derivatives and to compute my cost
function J of theta and finally I can
then take my derivatives and unroll them
so keeping the elements in the same
ordering as I did want to unroll my
Thetas then I'm going to unroll d1 d2 d3
to get gradient back which is now what's
my cost function and return to return a
vector of these
so hopefully you now have a good sense
of how to convert back and forth between
their matrix representation of the
parameters versus the vector
representation of the parameters the
advantage of the matrix representation
is that when your parameters are stored
as matrices is more convenient when
you're doing forward propagation and
back propagation and is easier when your
parameters are stored as matrices to
take advantage of the sort of vectorized
implementations whereas in contrast the
advantage of the vector representation
we have like thetavec o defect is that
when you're using the advanced
optimization algorithms those algorithms
tend to assume that you have all of your
parameters unrolled into a big long
vector and so with what we just went
through hopefully you can now quickly
convert between the two as needed